PBM-855 Release notes 1.8.0 (#29)
percona/pbm-docs: source/release-notes/1.8.0.rst

.. _PBM-1.8.0:

================================================================================
*Percona Backup for MongoDB* 1.8.0 (2022-06-07)
================================================================================

:Date: June 7, 2022
:Installation: `Installing Percona Backup for MongoDB <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-backup-mongodb/installation.html>`_

Percona Backup for MongoDB is a distributed, low-impact solution for consistent backups of MongoDB
sharded clusters and replica sets. This is a tool for creating consistent backups
across a MongoDB sharded cluster (or a single replica set), and for restoring
those backups to a specific point in time. 

Release Highlights
==================

> * Ability to restore data to a replica set with a different name and configuration. This drastically reduces time on environment preparation for data restore.

Reviewer: Can we please add the link to a doc here about this new dashing feature?

> * Ability to save oplog slices without the mandatory base backup. This facilitates backup / restore management from EBS-snapshots. 

Reviewer: Same comment about the doc here.

Author: Done

* To simplify the |PBM| configuration, the example configuration file is now included in the |PBM| package. 

New Features
================================================================================

> * :jirabug:`PBM-776`: Allow data restore into the replica set with a different name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :jirabug:`PBM-776`: Allow data restore into the replica set with a different name
```

* :jirabug:`PBM-782`: Allow saving |PITR| oplog  without base snapshot

Improvements
================================================================================

> * :jirabug:`PBM-828`: Add full config reference file to packages

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand the value of this change for a user.

> * :jirabug:`PBM-751`: Format timestamps according to `RFC3339 <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3339>`_ (Thanks to Damiano Albani for reporting this issue)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :jirabug:`PBM-751`: Format timestamps according to `RFC3339 <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3339>`_ in `pbm list` output (Thanks to Damiano Albani for reporting this issue)
```

Author: Not only for this command but everywhere it is used. So I'd avoid mentioning pbm list here

Reviewer: agree. thanks

Bugs Fixed
================================================================================

> * :jirabug:`PBM-820`: PBM crashes on cancel backup command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :jirabug:`PBM-820`: Fix a bug where PBM crashed if backup cancelled right after it started
```

Author: Fixed

.. _PBM-1.8.0:

================================================================================
*Percona Backup for MongoDB* 1.8.0 (2022-06-09)
================================================================================

:Date: June 9, 2022
:Installation: `Installing Percona Backup for MongoDB <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-backup-mongodb/installation.html>`_

Percona Backup for MongoDB is a distributed, low-impact solution for consistent backups of MongoDB
sharded clusters and replica sets. This is a tool for creating consistent backups
across a MongoDB sharded cluster (or a single replica set), and for restoring
those backups to a specific point in time. 

Release Highlights
==================

* Ability to :ref:`restore data to a replica set with a different name and configuration <pbm.restore-new-env>`. This extends the list of environments compatible for the restore.

> * When you use EBS-snapshots or other tools for physical backups, you :ref:`no longer have to create a mandatory base backup in Percona Backup for MongoDB as the starting point for  Point-in-Time Recovery oplog slicing <pitr-oplog-only>`. This reduces time and efforts on managing excessive backups and makes |PITR| from physical backups more straightforward. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When you use EBS-snapshots or other tools for physical backups, you :ref:`no longer have to create a mandatory base backup in Percona Backup for MongoDB as the starting point for Point-in-Time Recovery oplog slicing <pitr-oplog-only>`. This reduces time and effort on managing excessive backups and makes |PITR| from physical or storage-level backups more straightforward. 
```

"base backup" - not sure, but I think I saw us calling it base snapshot. Is it an industry term?

Author: In the docs we use backup snapshot. Amended like this for consistency

* To simplify the |PBM| configuration, the example configuration file is now included in the |PBM| package. 

New Features
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PBM-776`: Allow data restore into the replica set with a different name

> * :jirabug:`PBM-866`: Add the ``--wait`` flag to backup command

Reviewer: This one is not in highlights and value is not explained. 
There are no details in the ticket as well, so frankly I have no idea how would user understand what is it. 

@defbin please update the ticket description in JIRA.

@nastena1606 please update the description in the release notes. Like we add this --wait flag which does X and it can be useful for Y.
